README.md, before:

# common

- Installs common packages
- Creates administrator accounts and adds them to the `wheel` group
- Removes `root`s password
- Sets language, locales and keyboard layout
- Configures hostname settings

## Requirements

A Debian-based distribution.

## Role Variables

| Name                               | Mandatory / Default               | Description                                                                                                                              |
|:-----------------------------------|:---------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `admins`                           | `{}`                              | Dict of admin users, see [User configuration](#User configuration)                                                                       |
| `common_jumphost_users`            | `{}`                              | Dict of users that are allowed to use this host as SSH proxy jump host, see [User configuration](#User configuration)                    |
| `locales`                          | `[en_US.UTF-8]`                   | List of locales to install                                                                                                               |
| `keyboard_layout`                  | `us,de`                           | TTY keyboard layout                                                                                                                      |
| `default_language`                 | `en_US.UTF-8`                     | Default language                                                                                                                         |
| `apt_repository_components`        | `[main]`                          | List of apt repository versions to enable for all hosts                                                                                  |
| `apt_repository_components_ubuntu` | `[universe]`                      | List of apt repository versions to enable only on Ubuntu hosts                                                                           |
| `apt_repository_components_debian` | `[contrib]`                       | List of apt repository versions to enable only on Debian hosts                                                                           |
| `common_debian_sources`            |                                   | Verbatim sources.list definition for Debian. Overrides the usual `sources.list` generation                                               |
| `common_ubuntu_sources`            |                                   | Verbatim sources.list definition for Ubuntu. Overrides the usual `sources.list` generation                                               |
| `common_core_packages`             | see [defaults](defaults/main.yml) | Common core packages to install (like locales or iproute2)                                                                               |
| `common_extra_packages`            | see [defaults](defaults/main.yml) | Common extra packages to install (like less or htop)                                                                                     |
| `common_custom_packages`           | `[]`                              | Custom packages to install, useful if you want to have some extra packages installed without copying and overriding the two lists abvove |

### User configuration

Each key in the `admins` list shall be a username (used to log in), with the following dict as a value:

| Name            | Mandatory / Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                       |
|:----------------|:-------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`          | :heavy_check_mark:  | The full name of the admin user                                                                                                                                                   |
| `shell`         | `/bin/bash`         | Path to the shell to set for this admin (this key is ignored for `common_jumphost_users`)                                                                                         |
| `keys`          | `[]`                | List of SSH keys that allow this user to login or proxy-jump via SSH                                                                                                              |
| `passwd`        |                     | [hashed](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/faq.html#how-do-i-generate-crypted-passwords-for-the-user-module) passphrase                                                             |
| `allowed_hosts` | `[]`                | List of hosts and ports to which the user is allowed to jump to (via the current host). The format is `{{ ip }}:{{ port }}`. This key is only parsed for `common_jumphost_users`. |

## Example Playbook

```yml
- hosts: web01
  roles:
    - role: common
      admins:
        max:
          name: Max Mustermann
          shell: /usr/bin/zsh
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max123
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max321
          passwd: $6$mDFWEb5pDY$C9ZTuNjTTSyh0uIBoZALAV6isFY4dO8gBN2/xJ0yX2rejvr2wKp/wMmHwvoC.gD8NaeozxjhWvNHp3rJEJdJj1
        lena:
          name: Lena Mustermann
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max123
      common_jumphost_users:
        tim:
          name: Tim Mustermann
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn timey
          allowed_hosts:
            - 196.168.1.5:22
      default_language: de_DE.UTF-8
      keyboard_layout: de
      locales:
        - de_DE.UTF-8
        - en_US.UTF-8
```

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/80x15.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

## Author Information
* [Markus Mroch (Mr. Pi)](https://github.com/Mr-Pi) _markus.mroch@stuvus.uni-stuttgart.de_

Commit message:

Make nagios sudo executable paths configurable

README.md, after:

# common

- Installs common packages
- Creates administrator accounts and adds them to the `wheel` group
- Removes `root`s password
- Sets language, locales and keyboard layout
- Configures hostname settings

## Requirements

A Debian-based distribution.

## Role Variables

| Name                               | Mandatory / Default               | Description                                                                                                                              |
|:-----------------------------------|:---------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `admins`                           | `{}`                              | Dict of admin users, see [User configuration](#User configuration)                                                                       |
| `common_jumphost_users`            | `{}`                              | Dict of users that are allowed to use this host as SSH proxy jump host, see [User configuration](#User configuration)                    |
| `locales`                          | `[en_US.UTF-8]`                   | List of locales to install                                                                                                               |
| `keyboard_layout`                  | `us,de`                           | TTY keyboard layout                                                                                                                      |
| `default_language`                 | `en_US.UTF-8`                     | Default language                                                                                                                         |
| `apt_repository_components`        | `[main]`                          | List of apt repository versions to enable for all hosts                                                                                  |
| `apt_repository_components_ubuntu` | `[universe]`                      | List of apt repository versions to enable only on Ubuntu hosts                                                                           |
| `apt_repository_components_debian` | `[contrib]`                       | List of apt repository versions to enable only on Debian hosts                                                                           |
| `common_debian_sources`            |                                   | Verbatim sources.list definition for Debian. Overrides the usual `sources.list` generation                                               |
| `common_ubuntu_sources`            |                                   | Verbatim sources.list definition for Ubuntu. Overrides the usual `sources.list` generation                                               |
| `common_core_packages`             | see [defaults](defaults/main.yml) | Common core packages to install (like locales or iproute2)                                                                               |
| `common_extra_packages`            | see [defaults](defaults/main.yml) | Common extra packages to install (like less or htop)                                                                                     |
| `common_custom_packages`           | `[]`                              | Custom packages to install, useful if you want to have some extra packages installed without copying and overriding the two lists abvove |
| `common_allowed_nagios_sudo_paths` | `[]`                              | Paths to executables that may be executed by nagios without a password using `sudo`.                                                     |

### User configuration

Each key in the `admins` list shall be a username (used to log in), with the following dict as a value:

| Name            | Mandatory / Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                       |
|:----------------|:-------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`          | :heavy_check_mark:  | The full name of the admin user                                                                                                                                                   |
| `shell`         | `/bin/bash`         | Path to the shell to set for this admin (this key is ignored for `common_jumphost_users`)                                                                                         |
| `keys`          | `[]`                | List of SSH keys that allow this user to login or proxy-jump via SSH                                                                                                              |
| `passwd`        |                     | [hashed](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/faq.html#how-do-i-generate-crypted-passwords-for-the-user-module) passphrase                                                             |
| `allowed_hosts` | `[]`                | List of hosts and ports to which the user is allowed to jump to (via the current host). The format is `{{ ip }}:{{ port }}`. This key is only parsed for `common_jumphost_users`. |

## Example Playbook

```yml
- hosts: web01
  roles:
    - role: common
      admins:
        max:
          name: Max Mustermann
          shell: /usr/bin/zsh
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max123
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max321
          passwd: $6$mDFWEb5pDY$C9ZTuNjTTSyh0uIBoZALAV6isFY4dO8gBN2/xJ0yX2rejvr2wKp/wMmHwvoC.gD8NaeozxjhWvNHp3rJEJdJj1
        lena:
          name: Lena Mustermann
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn max123
      common_jumphost_users:
        tim:
          name: Tim Mustermann
          keys:
            - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5aaaaIEFmmHsB7LgVMmujy51QfoSS9hnN7GMEm+Mkcg1YVJnn timey
          allowed_hosts:
            - 196.168.1.5:22
      default_language: de_DE.UTF-8
      keyboard_layout: de
      locales:
        - de_DE.UTF-8
        - en_US.UTF-8
```

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/80x15.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

## Author Information
* [Markus Mroch (Mr. Pi)](https://github.com/Mr-Pi) _markus.mroch@stuvus.uni-stuttgart.de_
